README.md, before:

The repository contains support material for the lab classes of the *Algorithmic Methods for Data Science* course taught as part of the [Data Science master](http://datascience.i3s.uniroma1.it/it) at [Sapienza University](http://www.uniroma1.it/). The class was tought during the following years: 
* [2017-2018](http://aris.me/index.php/data-mining-ds-2017)
* [2016-2017](http://aris.me/index.php/data-mining-ds-2016)
* [2015-2016](http://aris.me/index.php/data-mining-ds-2015)


# Lab on Data Manipulation in CSV format using the Rome's Population Dataset

The lab focuses on parsing multiple datasets (in CSV format) provided by the [Open Data portal of the City of Rome](http://dati.comune.roma.it/). 

The lab material is available as an iPython notebook:
* [Handling CSV datasets using Rome Population Dataset](lab-population/ADM%20Lab%20-%20Population.ipynb)


# Lab on Data Visualisation using the Rome's Population Dataset

The lab focuses on visualizing multiple datasets (in CSV format) provided by the [Open Data portal of the City of Rome](http://dati.comune.roma.it/). 

The lab material is available as an iPython notebook:
* [Data Visualization using Rome Population Dataset](lab-visualization/ADM%20Lab%20-%20Visualization.ipynb)


# Lab on Clustering & Data Visualization using the Iris Dataset

The lab focuses on Clustering data using the K-means algorithm. The material is based on the refcard from [DZone](https://dzone.com/) on [Practical Data Mining with Python](https://dzone.com/refcardz/data-mining-discovering-and).

The [Iris Dataset](http://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/datasets/plot_iris_dataset.html) is used that includes measurements on 150 [iris plants](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iris_%28plant%29). The [matplotlib](http://matplotlib.org/) library is used to visualize the data. 

The lab material is available as an iPython notebook:
* [Clustering, Data Visualization using Iris Dataset](lab-iris/ADM%20Lab%20-%20Iris.ipynb)

Commit message:

Introducing 4th laboratory on json format + mongodb

README.md, after:

The repository contains support material for the lab classes of the *Algorithmic Methods for Data Science* course taught as part of the [Data Science master](http://datascience.i3s.uniroma1.it/it) at [Sapienza University](http://www.uniroma1.it/). The class was tought during the following years: 
* [2017-2018](http://aris.me/index.php/data-mining-ds-2017)
* [2016-2017](http://aris.me/index.php/data-mining-ds-2016)
* [2015-2016](http://aris.me/index.php/data-mining-ds-2015)


# Lab on Data Manipulation in CSV format using the Rome's Population Dataset

The lab focuses on parsing multiple datasets (in CSV format) provided by the [Open Data portal of the City of Rome](http://dati.comune.roma.it/). 

The lab material is available as an iPython notebook:
* [Handling CSV datasets using Rome Population Dataset](lab-population/ADM%20Lab%20-%20Population.ipynb)


# Lab on Data Visualisation using the Rome's Population Dataset

The lab focuses on visualizing multiple datasets (in CSV format) provided by the [Open Data portal of the City of Rome](http://dati.comune.roma.it/). 

The lab material is available as an iPython notebook:
* [Data Visualization using Rome Population Dataset](lab-visualization/ADM%20Lab%20-%20Visualization.ipynb)


# Lab on Document Databases using the Lazios's Bar/Restaurant Dataset

The lab focuses on using dataset (in JSON format) provided by the [Open Data portal of Italy](http://www.datiopen.it) and how to use a document database, such as [MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.com), to store & organize the data. 

The lab material is available as an iPython notebook:
* [Data Manipulation using Lazio Bar/Restaurant Dataset](lab-restaurants/ADM%20Lab%20-%20Restaurants.ipynb)


# Lab on Clustering & Data Visualization using the Iris Dataset

The lab focuses on Clustering data using the K-means algorithm. The material is based on the refcard from [DZone](https://dzone.com/) on [Practical Data Mining with Python](https://dzone.com/refcardz/data-mining-discovering-and).

The [Iris Dataset](http://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/datasets/plot_iris_dataset.html) is used that includes measurements on 150 [iris plants](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iris_%28plant%29). The [matplotlib](http://matplotlib.org/) library is used to visualize the data. 

The lab material is available as an iPython notebook:
* [Clustering, Data Visualization using Iris Dataset](lab-iris/ADM%20Lab%20-%20Iris.ipynb)
